# Linux-Script
You are tasked with writing a pipeline using standard Linux programs to generate a word frequency list for a file.There are 4 parts to this project. Exercise 2.6 on page 38 of the textbook shows you that the following pipeline will produce the word1 frequency in a file named “document”: tr –s '[:blank:]' '\n' <document | sort | uniq -c  (0) You should consult the man pages for tr, sort, and uniq if you are unsure why this pipeline works.In fact, as described in section 2.6.4 of the textbook, if we create a script file named part0that consists of the following single line:tr –s '[:blank:]' '\n' | sort | uniq -c we can achieve the same execution as pipeline (0) above by giving bashthe following command:sh part0 <document 1 Make the word list be case-insensitiveAs discussed in Section 2.4.7.3 of the textbook, uniq is case sensitive, such that “this” and “This” would be considered different words by pipeline (0) above. Add another invocation of trto the pipeline in part0to make the word count case-insensitive.Your modified pipeline should be in a script file named part1. 2 Change the output orderThe pipeline in part0outputs the results according to the sort order of the words. It is more likely that you wish to see the words by frequency, from high to low. Add another invocation of sort to the pipeline in part0to present the output by frequency, from high to low.Your modified pipeline should be in a script file named part2. 1A word is a sequence of non-whitespace characters, separated from other words by one or more blanks, tabs, or end of line characters. 
CIS 212 Project 1-2-   3 Punctuation and white space delimit wordsOur definition of a word means that punctuation is included in a word – e.g., the last word in “I must go to the store.” is “store.”. Add another invocation of tr to the pipeline in part0 to also use punctuation to delimit words. Your modified pipeline should be in a script file named part3. 4 All together nowFinally, we want case-insensitive, punctuation and white space delimited words, with the final output sorted by frequency, from highest to lowest.Your modified pipeline should be in a script file named part4. 5 Starting filesIn Canvas, in Files/Projects, you will find a gzipped tar archive named P1start.tgz; this file contains the following files:•input – a file that contains a lot of words, both with and without upper case letters and punctuation.•part0 – a file containing pipeline 0 above; note that it does not contain the <document term shown in pipeline (0). Your part1, part2, part3, and part4files should NOT contain the <document term, either. •part0.out – this is how the output should look if you execute pipeline (0) using the file named input.•part1.out – this is how your output should look if you have correctly modified pipeline (0) for part1 and applied to the file input.•part2.out – this is how your output should look if you have correctly modified pipeline (0) for part2 and applied to the file input.•part3.out – this is how your output should look if you have correctly modified pipeline (0) for part3 and applied to the file input.•part4.out – this is how your output should look if you have correctly modified pipeline (0) for part4and applied to the file input.•tscript – a bash script file that performs a number of tests of your part?files using inputandpart*.out; invoking            ./tscriptwill execute all of your pipelines, comparing their outputs against the corresponding output files.
CIS 212 Project 1-3-   6 Checking that your pipelines work correctlyAs stated earlier, we can execute the pipeline in part0 with the following command2: sh part0 <inputThis will cause the pipeline to be executed, taking its input from the file named input.To check if the output is correct, you can execute the following pipeline:sh part0 <input | diff – part0.outThis pipeline tells diff to compare standard input (denoted by '-') to part0.out; if the correct output is generated by part0, nothing should be printed, and you will see the next prompt from bash. You can use the same technique to check the output from part[1-4] against part[1-4].out. The sort utility on Linux and Unix-like systems is dependent upon the current locale defined for your system3. The shell script I have provided, tscript, which can be used to execute the above tests,  makes sure that you are using the correct locale; if one or more arguments are specified, tscript will only perform those specific tests; if no arguments are specified, all of the tests are performed. Each test is an invocation of your part?script and a comparison of your output against the correct output.The tests that tscript performs are:0 Tests that the part0script provided to you works correctly.1 Tests that your part1script works correctly.2 Tests that your part2script works correctly.3 Tests that your part3script works correctly.4 Tests that your part4script works correctly.For each test, tscript prints out “Testing that part<digit> works correctly”, where <digit> is one of {0,  1,  2,  3,  4}; it then prints a line consisting of “=====”; it then executes the corresponding script applied to input; finally, it prints “===== Stopping test <digit>”.If there is any output between the “=====” line and the Stopping line, the test has failed.
